domain1 = The beginning of the process of establishing an online presence and identity starts with buying a domain name.
domain2 = You buy them from a domain registrar.
domain3 = Some choices for that are Porkbun, Namecheap, and Cloudflare.
domain4 = My favorite is Porkbun. They are a local company, and have great customer service, so I like to support them.
domain5 = The name of the domain I'll put in here is essentialconcepts dot org. This is where you'll put in the domain name you want to register.
domain6 = It's available, so let's add it to the cart, and go to checkout.
domain7 = Go ahead and enter in your payment info and wait for the process to complete.
email1 = Now, we're going to configure email. For this, we're going to be using Google Workspace.
email2 = While there are other options, Google Workspace is one of the largest and easiest to work with.
email3 = I'm just going to pick myself for the sake of this example. Make the right choice for your scenario.
email4 = You'll need to provide your name and another email address to use for initial contact information.
email5 = Since you've bought your domain already, you'll want to pick the second option for "use your own domain" here.
email6 = enter your domain name on this screen
email7 = confirm your choice here, and click next
email8 = On this screen, you're going to pick the username and password for the administrator of this account.
email9 = Sign in with the same credentials you entered in the previous screen.
email10 = You're going to have to verify your identity here. I chose text message as the option, so you'll have to provide your phone number for that.
email11 = Once you get the code on your phone, enter that in
email12 = Read the welcome screen, and confirm that you understand.
email13 = For the purposes of this example, I pick the cheapest plan. Feel free to pick one that fits you best.
email14 = You get discounts for picking an annual plan over monthly, so keep that in mind.
email15 = After you pick your plan, you'll have to provide address info as well as payment info
email16 = There are some upsell options like the Gemini AI service, but I leave those out.
email17 = In order to set up email for your domain, you have to verify that you are the owner for that domain.
email18 = We do that with a process called DNS validation.
email19 = DNS stands for domain name service. Think of DNS this way. Humans remember names, like google.com, but computers are identified by numbers, called IP addresses.
email20 = DNS is the translator, or like an old-style phone book, if you will.
email21 = One IP address for google.com is one fourty-two dot two fifty dot sixty-nine dot two oh six. DNS takes the name, and finds the IP address for it that is defined on DNS servers.
email22 = So we're going to go back to the domain registrar site. Remember I used porkbun. And we'll create some DNS records there, to perform the validation.
email23 = On this "add verification code" screen, we're given the data for the record we need to create in the DNS settings at porkbun.com
email24 = I'm going to open the Porkbun site in a second tab, so that I can easily come back and copy this info.
email25 = Logging in, to Porkbun now.
email26 = Once logged in, we'll go the DNS settings for the domain.
email27 = In the case of using Porkbun for a domain registrar, they automatically create a couple of DNS records for you. Those will have to be deleted.
email28 = Create a new TXT type record. We'll switch over to the Google tab real quick and copy the value for this record to the clipboard.
email29 = For host, you can leave it blank or enter an asterisk.
email30 = In the answer field, this is where you paste the line you copied from Porkbun.
email31 = Confirm that you've created the record.
email32 = Now that you've verified ownership of the domain, Google will have you create another record to activate email service.
email33 = Click on Activate Gmail, and you'll be given the next steps.
email34 = On the "Start using g mail with your domain" screen, click continue
email35 = On the activation screen, go ahead and click proceed with activation.
email36 = On the "Add Gmail activation code" screen, this contains the information we need for the next DNS record we have to create.
email37 = Back on the Porkbun DNS page, we're going to create a new DNS record, but this time, it will be type MX. Paste the Host value from the Google page onto this screen into the Answer field, and set the Priority field to 1, and then click Add.
email38 = Now go back to the browser tab for Google, and confirm that you've added the MX record.
email39 = That's it. Now you have Google Workspace activated.
email40 = On the next screen, I check all the boxes before clicking on "Explore Google Workspace"
email41 = One of the many nice things that comes with your workspace subscription is that you get access to all the Google productivity applications, like Docs, Sheets, and Slides. It's all included.
email42 = if you need to add other users you can do it from this screen, or you can do it later from settings
email43 = I would encourage you to get familiar with, and used to, the Google suite of products. They are very useful, and it's nice to have everything all in one place.
email44 = If you have any questions or need any assistance, please feel free to reach out to me at aaron@longviewbits.com. That's a a r o n at long view bits dot com. Thank you for your business!!
dns_explain = I just want to provide a short explanation of how DNS works, and then we'll move on to creating the necessary records.